h1. What is it?

You can find out more about HAML at "haml-lang.com":http://haml-lang.com
You can find out more about GO at "golang.org":http://golang.org

I've tried to remain diligent about reproducing the output from the canonical Ruby-based parser, so if you feel familiar with the one, then you should feel familiar with the other.

This branch compiels with 6g/8g version release.r58.1 8740.

h1. Is it done?

I think so. It has...

* Tags with
** empty content;
** attributes of the form @{:attr => "value"}@;
** id moniker using "#" (@#divId@); and,
** class moniker using "." (@.divClass@).
* Tag nesting
* Scope lookup
** Arbitrary number of keys as specified by struct (@someKeyInScope.Subkey1.Subkey2@)
** Valid as tag content (@%p= someKeyInScope@)
** Valid as tag attribute value (@%p{:attr => someKeyInScope}@)
** Valid as tag attribute name (@%p{someKeyInScope => "value"}@)
* Engine-level autoclose option (@&lt;br /&gt;@ vs. @&lt;br&gt;@)
* Tag-specific close option (@%br/@ becomes @&lt;br /&gt;@ regardless of autoclose setting)
* Whitespace removal with the @<@ operator
* Simple scripting
** Declaration and assignment of strings, floats, and ints (- varname := "value")
** Range looping construct (- for i, v := range scopeVar)
* Error messages for badly-formed templates

If you would like another feature added, just log an issue and I'll review it forthright.

h1. How can I install this?

To install the library for use in your project, you can use goinstall.

pre. goinstall "github.com/realistschuckle/gohaml/lib"

h1. How can I build this?

Install "goll1e":https://github.com/realistschuckle/goll1e
Get the source.
Run @gomake@ at <projectroot>/lib.

h1. HEY! This doesn't build! What's wrong with you?

Ok, the release and master branches contain code that compiles against the latest documented release of Go. Sometimes, those
awesome and crazy Go guys change the cr4p out of the API and that breaks gohaml. Try switching over to the @preview@ branch
and compiling that one. I try to keep it up to date with breaking changes to Go.

h1. How can I use it?

How about something like this? Save it, compile it, link it, and run it!

bc.. package main

import (
	"gohaml"
	"fmt"
)

func main() {
	var scope = make(map[string]interface{})
	scope["lang"] = "HAML"
	content := "I love <\n=lang<\n!"
	engine := gohaml.NewEngine(content)
	output := engine.Render(scope)
	fmt.Println(output) // Prints "I love HAML!"
}

h1. Can I use it some other way, too?

Yes, you sure can! The exe directory has a project to run a command-line version of gohaml.

After you install the @gohaml@ package, download the code and type @make install@. Then, command-line it yourself.

pre. gohaml input.haml output.html

h1. Can I type to gohaml on stdin?

Yep. And, it'll print to standard out, too. Just type @gohaml@ at the command prompt after installation and you can type all you want with a CTRL+D to signal EOF.
